{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red51\green51\blue51;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh13000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 **	If a college student is interested in dating a certain person then they might be given the advice, \'91guard your heart.\'92  What is meant by \'91guard your heart\'92 is one shouldn\'92t get emotionally involved in the relationship too quickly but wait and see if there is godly compatibility and the feelings are mutual.  But if they forge ahead with an unguarded heart they risk rejection or being trapped in a dysfunctional relationship.  With the dire consequences in view this sage advice continues from one campus to the next.  \
	Perhaps that could be a tiny application of Biblical wisdom but the original verse branches out to include all of life.  Proverbs 4:23 (NIV) says, \'93Above all else, guard your heart, for it is the wellspring of life.\'94  When the Bible talks about your heart, it refers to the core of who you are.  It\'92s your thoughts, your motives, your emotions, your personality, and the spiritual part of your make-up. Your heart is what makes you, you.  Proverbs 27:19 (ESV) puts it like this, \'93As in water face reflects face, so the heart of man reflects the man.\'94  When we talk about getting to know someone better, we mean that we are getting to know their hearts and who they really are.   \
	Why guard your heart?  Why the urgency to do this, \'93above all else?\'94  Because out of your heart comes your character which is revealed in your choices, your speech and your actions.  The imagery is one of a \'93wellspring.\'94  Just as a wellspring is the source of a stream or a river so the heart is the source of your life.  From the heart springs forth the core of who you are.  The reason why you want to guard your heart is because you want to guard your life.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	To guard your heart means to protect what comes in and goes out.  You have to constantly be on guard and keep your heart with all vigilance because it\'92s the command center for all your words and actions.  The puritan John Flavel used the example of guarding your heart akin to a besieged garrison with enemies on the outside and treacherous citizens on the inside.  The imagery is dated, but the idea is good, so let me run with it in a modern equivalent.\
	Before I was a Christian I had an unguarded and rebellious heart.  My heart was like a frat house that partied hard.  I had no restraints on the anger and foul language that came out and that I let in.  I had no guard on the amounts of sexual immorality that I expressed and invited in.  Greed came out of my heart and freely welcomed new greedy ideas.  Anxiety needed no key to come and go as it pleased.  There was freedom for sin to come out of my corrupt heart and come in to corrupt it even more.  Then Jesus demolished and removed my frat house heart and gave me a new white house heart.  The imagery I moved from was an everything-goes frat house to a heavily-guarded White House (one of the most guarded homes in the country).  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	If you are a believer your heart is now purified and the Holy Spirit lives in you and enables you to guard your heart.  By God\'92s grace you can now be vigilant in guarding what comes in and out of your heart.  To that end, a crucial weapon in guarding your heart is scripture memory.  As you freely welcome in the Word of God and store it deep in your core so that it impacts your thoughts, emotions, plans and words, eventually and powerfully it will gush forth in a life lived for the glory of God.*\
\
\
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	What is going on in your heart?  Jeremiah 17:9 says, \'93The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it?\'94  When a Disney movie tells you to trust your heart, just yell out right there in the movie theater, \'93Don\'92t do it!\'94  Now, for Christians this \'91desperately sick\'92 heart has been removed
\f0 ,
\f1  and a new heart has been put in its place.  When we acknowledge our sin and repent and put our faith in Jesus, we are changed and given a new heart and a new Spirit.  Ezekiel 36:26-27 says, \'93And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you.  And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. [27]\'a0And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.\'94  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	Before we were Christians
\f0 ,
\f1  we had hard hearts against God, but now they are new, soft, and malleable.  Because of this, we want to obey and worship Him.  However, deep inside our regenerated hearts, something is still off (call it the flesh or indwelling sin).  Though our hearts are no longer enslaved to sin, they still have a propensity to dabble in the old ways of life.  Our hearts are constantly choosing between good and evil, between wisdom and foolishness, between worshipping God and worshipping idols.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 	
\f1 So, I ask again, what is going on in your heart?  Maybe you have no clue.  A helpful hint to see what\'92s going on in your heart is to pay attention to your words.  Your words reveal your heart condition.  For example, if your words are foolish and hurt others, you don\'92t have a word problem but a heart problem.  Jesus said in Luke 6:45, \'93The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.\'94  Pay attention to the words that gush from your heart.      
\f0 \
	
\f1 Another helpful hint is to pay attention to your actions because they reveal your heart as well.  Once Jesus spoke about the heart in the context of what defiles a person.  Defilement is not a matter of clean or unclean foods but the heart.  Mark 7:20-23 says, \'93And he said, \'91What comes out of a person is what defiles him. [21]\'a0For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, [22]\'a0coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. [23]\'a0All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person.\'92\'94  The heart is the root issue of all these behaviors.  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	What\'92s going on in your heart?  This knowledge starts by owning your sin as \'91your\'92 sin.  Don\'92t blame others or circumstances for your foolish words.  Don\'92t explain away your sinful actions by pointing the finger elsewhere but turn it around and point it at your heart.  If you fail to repent of your personal sin, you will continue to gush out pain on others and disobedience to God.  But if you see something is wrong and something is \'91you\'92 then you can receive forgiveness in Jesus and ask the Lord to help you live out your new Gospel transformed heart.  \
	Ultimately, only God knows all that is going on in your heart, so make these words your desperate plea: \'93Search me, O God, and know my heart!  Try me and know my thoughts!  And see if there be any grievous way in me,\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 and lead me in the way everlasting!\'94 (Psalm 139:23-24)*\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 My wife and I used to watch a TV Documentary called 
\i NY Med
\i0 .  It\'92s a reality show that reveals the emotions and grind inside a variety of New York City hospitals.  Often, the storyline surrounded some type of heart surgery.  The surgeon would meet with the patient and discuss all the problems with their heart: Clots, disease, failing, etc\'85  The surgeon would say, \'93It looks bad, but I am not going to know how bad until I open you up.\'94  This was always a set-up because in the next scene they would open up the patient and it\'92s worse than they thought.  Sometimes the heart had additional problems, other times blood started to squirt out, and sometimes the patient\'92s heart even stopped beating for a while.  Eventually, the surgeon comes through, the patient lives, and everyone praises and hugs the surgeon.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Let\'92s do a little heart surgery of sorts where you are the patient.  It\'92s not physical heart surgery, but surgery on your unseen heart.  You may have a variety of problems and ongoing issues: nagging fears, low-grade depression, unhappiness in life, often distracted, easily angered, full of worry and anxiety, out of control debt, no motivation, unchecked sexual desires, out of control food cravings, a desire for more money or stuff, and countless relational problems.  The issues you are having most likely stem from a problem in your heart.  Would you be willing to let God, the Great Physician, open you up?  Perhaps that\'92s scary because who knows what He will find or what problems will gush out.  But God is a tender Physician who loves you.  God is also a skilled Physician who knows what\'92s wrong and exactly what needs to be done.  You can trust Him and His work on you.     \
	God knows exactly what He will find when you open your heart to Him.  He knows you have areas of your life that are contrary to His Word and offensive to His Holiness.  Yet, He doesn\'92t turn away from you if you come humbly and broken through Jesus.  On the cross, Jesus took the punishment for your evil heart.  God now speaks words of forgiveness, healing, reconciliation and restoration.  God is not here to condemn but to welcome forgiven sinners and declare them His righteous saints.  There is no need to be afraid of what God might find because He already knows.  He still loves you and desires that you be healed.     \
	Our church has been known to sing the song, \'93Here\'92s My Heart.\'94  It\'92s a song where we ask God to open us up and speak what is true.  And the surprise is that He doesn\'92t speak words of judgment but words of grace.  Make this your song of healing today: \'93Here's my heart, Lord,
\i  
\i0 speak what is true.  I am found, I am Yours.  I am loved, I'm made pure.  I have life, I can breathe.  I am healed, I am free.  Here\'92s my heart, Lord, speak what is true.  You are strong, You are sure.  You are life, You endure.  You are good, always true.  You are light breaking through.  Here's my heart, Lord, speak what is true.  Here's my life, Lord, speak what is true.  I am found, I am Yours.  I am loved, I'm made pure.  I have life, I can breathe.  I am healed, I am free.  You are strong, You are sure.  You are life, You endure.  You are good, always true.  You are light breaking through.  You are more than enough.  You are here, You are love.  You are hope, You are grace.  You're all I have, You're everything.  Here's my heart, Lord,
\i  
\i0 speak what is true.\'94 \
____________________\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0  David Crowder*\
\
\
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Are you convinced that your heart can\'92t kick out sin and know joy until your circumstances change?  You may confess sin, ask God to search your heart and speak what is true, but you are not so sure it\'92s going to do any good because the pain is too overwhelming.  Yet, the Bible reveals there is a certain heart that can endure through the hard times.  Proverbs 17:22 is a demonstration of this heart: \'93A joyful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.\'94  A person with a \'91crushed spirit\'92 has lost the will to carry on.  A crushed spirit can take you out faster than a crushed body.  Hopeless despair has settled in, and you feel like there will be no joy ever again.  Many of you have faced or are facing the debilitating effects of despair.  You are crushed in spirit and can\'92t go on.  It\'92s like you are wasting away.   \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The flipside of a crushed spirit is a heart full of joy.  It\'92s this heart that is \'91good medicine\'92 no matter the circumstances.  Think about the Apostle Paul and Sil\cf2 as beaten and locked in prison and yet they are singing hymns to God (Acts 16:25).  How is that even possible?  Their joy was not circumstantial.  We often think we would be happier if God just flipped the circumstances.  Yet, it looks like we can have deep-seated joy in God no matter the pain.  1 Thessalonians 5:16 says, \'93Be Joyful always.\'94  That\'92s what we want, but how do we get and sustain such joy?    \
\cf0 	It all comes back to the heart.  You need to know deep inside that God is with you in your suffering.  God knows your anguished state, and He will never leave you nor forsake you.  \cf2 You can\'92t point a finger at God and say, \'93You are up there while I\'92m down here suffering. You don\'92t understand.\'94  You can\'92t say that because Jesus entered into the fullness of our humanity.  Jesus was deeply in touch with the brokenness of the world and was called a \'91man of sorrows.\'92  Isaiah 53:3-4 says, \'93He was despised and rejected by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and as one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not.  Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted.\'94  Jesus bore the full extent of a broken world by suffering in the body on the cross for your sin.  You contributed to His sorrows and sufferings because of your sin.  To top it all off, He felt the sorrow of the cross as the Father turned His face away and poured out His wrath because of your sin.  Yet, the One who is punished by the wrath of God in your place, for your sin is also the one moved with compassion for you. \
  	\cf0 The Bible even speaks of Jesus sympathizing with you in your weakness.  Hebrews 4:15-16 says, \'93For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.  Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.\'94  \cf2 As you suffer with sin, temptations and strong emotions, Jesus can sympathize with you.  Though He never sinned or was ruled by strong emotions, He can sympathize with you because He knows what you are going through.  As you suffer, He not only sympathizes with you, but gives you mercy and grace as you cry out to Him in your time of need.  You can be emotionally honest before God (He\'92s not surprised) and receive mercy and grace. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Receiving God\'92s grace and mercy doesn\'92t cause you to be a chipper, smiley Christian who brushes off the suffering of life.  But it does produce a deep-seated joy in the Lord that can be \'91good medicine\'92 regardless of the circumstances.
\f1 *\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 The Gospel is the good news of what God has done in Christ to rescue lost humanity from their sins and adopt them as children of God.  A good summary of the Gospel comes from 1 Corinthians 15:3-4\cf3 : \'93For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, [4]
\b \'a0
\b0 that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,\'94\'a0This is the core of the Gospel and the good news that Christians believe and proclaim.\'a0 Jesus Christ was the sinless one who died in the place of sinners.\'a0 On the cross, he bore the penalty and the full force of the wrath of God for sinners.\'a0 He was buried and remained dead until the third day when He rose again.\'a0 The Father accepted His perfect sacrifice, death was defeated and Satan was crushed.  Now, through faith in Jesus Christ, repentant sinners are forgiven and adopted into the family of God.    \'a0\
	This Gospel is not a new idea on God\'92s part but played out \'91in accordance with the Scriptures.\'92  There are a variety of historical Scriptural prophecies that looked ahead to the work of Jesus Christ.  Take, for example, Isaiah 53:5-6: \'93But he was pierced for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned\'97every one\'97to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all.\'94  God\'92s wrath coming upon the suffering Servant in the place of sinners was prophesied in the Old Testament.  Now, the Gospel of Jesus is proclaiming the fulfillment of the suffering Servant dying on the cross for sinners to be healed.     \
	This is the Gospel offered to the whole world, but it hits home by faith and explodes in the heart of one forgiven and adopted by God.  This explosion of the Gospel happened in my life at the age of nineteen.  I was a punk kid living my own life apart from God.  The trajectory of my life was headed to Hell, as I was steeped in immorality, greed, and foul language.  Religion masqueraded in my life with traditional church attendance and a variety of spiritual symbols on my walls and around my neck.  But it was a mockery, as my lifestyle betrayed the truth of the Gospel of God in the work of Christ.  My phoniness even passed a Christian screening, as I was hired by one of the best Christian camps in the nation.  At camp, I was supposed to be leading kids to Christ, but instead, the Lord brought me to Himself.  I heard the Gospel and was so convicted over my sin that I broke down in sobs and repented and turned to God for forgiveness in Jesus.  The Gospel of Jesus invaded my life, and I was saved and adopted into the family of God.         \
	God\'92s Gospel \'96 \cf0 prophesied \cf3 according to the Scriptures and fulfilled in Jesus \'96 has invaded your life as well.  You have a salvation story.  It might not be dramatic, but it is just as valuable.  Pause for a moment and flashback to God\'92s intervention in your life to bring you to Jesus.  Recall your specific rebellion against God and His Gospel pursuit.  \cf0 Your new memory verse captures the historical work of Christ on your behalf.  As you meditate on the Gospel, may you rejoice in God\'92s intervention in your life to forgive your sins and bring you into His family forever. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 *\
\
\
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Once, there was a big storm in the area where we live.  Heavy winds came through the neighborhood ripping trees to shreds.  Branches were down and leaves were everywhere.  As my wife and I walked around the neighborhood to survey the damage, we saw one tree completely uprooted.  Other trees in the area were devastated with leaves stripped and branches broken off, but they were still standing.  For the uprooted tree, life was over, and the next day, it was cut into firewood.  Similarly, storms of life will come to break and attempt to uproot you.  However, if you are rooted deep in the Gospel of God you will be battered, but not uprooted.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The Apostle Paul was a man rooted deep in the Gospel of God and was able to withstand a variety of storms.  His passion for the Gospel seeps through in Romans 1:1-4: \'93Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures, concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord.\'94  Paul says he has been called and \'91set apart for the Gospel of God.\'92  Your commonality with Paul and the centrality of your calling is the Gospel of God.  This means that the Gospel is to be your all consuming passion and focus.  You are to be a Gospel Man or a Gospel Woman. \
	The heart of the Gospel is all about Jesus.  Get to know Jesus.  The Gospel of God is centered on God\'92s Son who existed with the Father in equality for eternity \'96 before the world even began.  Yet, there came a moment in history when the Son entered this Earth in the flesh at the incarnation.  In his earthly existence, He was historically \'91descended from David according to the flesh.\'92  On Earth, Jesus was thoroughly Jewish and a descendant of David.  It was expected from the Scriptures that the Messiah would come from the line of David (2 Sam 7:12-16; Is 11:1-5), and Jesus is the legitimate Messiah because in His earthly existence, He came from David\'92s line.  \
	Romans 1:4 describes His resurrection existence: \'93And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord.\'94  Don\'92t think this verse says that Jesus became the Son of God at His resurrection.  Obviously, He has always been the Son of God.  That\'92s not what the verse means.  It\'92s getting at a contrast between His earthly existence as the incarnate Son of God and His heavenly existence as the incarnate Son of God.  His earthly existence in the flesh, as a descendant of David, was one of humility and weakness eventually leading to his death on the cross.  In contrast, now He is the resurrected \'91Son of God in power.\'92  Through His resurrection from the dead, by the Holy Spirit, sin has been dealt with and Jesus is now the reigning Lord.  A more familiar passage getting at the same exaltation is Philippians 2:5-11, which speaks of Jesus taking on human form and humbling himself unto death on the cross.  But after His resurrection, God exalted Him to the highest place of honor so that \'91every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.\'92  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	This is the Gospel of God centered on Jesus Christ.  May you be a Gospel man or a Gospel woman who is consumed with Jesus.  He is your crucified, resurrected and reigning Lord.  May the Holy Spirit root you deep in the Gospel, so that no matter the storms, Jesus will receive your passion, focus, obedience and worship.  
\f1 *\
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	When my oldest son was a freshman in high school, he interviewed me for an assignment concerning my hero and role model.  We had a lot of fun because he knew who I would choose.  Let me give you a summary of the questions asked and quick answers.  
\f0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 1.  Who is your role model?  Jesus.  
\f0 \

\f1 2.  What characteristics does this person display?  He is the Great-God man who is perfect in all of His ways.  
\f0 \

\f1 3.  Why do you look up to this person?  He loved me so much to die for my sins and reconcile me to God.  
\f0 \

\f1 4.  What is your favorite quote of this person?  John 14:6, \'93I am the way, and the truth, and the life.  No one comes to the Father except through me.\'94  
\f0 \

\f1 5.  What significant things has this person done in the world?  Let\'92s see, He created the world, defeated death, crushed Satan, and rose from the dead to never die again so that
\f0 ,
\f1  through faith
\f0 ,
\f1  people could live with God forever.  
\f0 \

\f1 6.  What kind of gift do you feel that this person gives to people?  Eternal Life. 
\f0 \

\f1 7.  Is this person self-sacrificing in any way?  Yes, He took on the sins of humanity and died on the cross bearing the wrath of God.  
\f0 \

\f1 8.  Has this person ever made any mistakes in the past?  No, He lived a sinless perfect life.   \
	This is really not a fair pick for a role model.  No matter who the other students chose as their role model
\f0 ,
\f1  they will not compare to the greatness of Jesus.  They might as well let my son go last because if he goes first it will make all the others heroes and role models seem a bit inferior.  Jesus trumps all heroes and role models.  Those who believe have a deep conviction that He really is that much greater than all who have ever existed.  Not only is it a deep-seated conviction
\f0 ,
\f1  but true believers are not ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  \
Romans 1:16 says, \'93For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes\'85\'94 The Christian makes the bold claim that Jesus was the Son of God who lived a sinless life and died to reconcile men to God through faith.  He is now seated at the right hand of God and everyone is called to repent and believe in Him as Savior and Lord of all.  Most of the people you know in life probably don\'92t cherish this Gospel and think it is crazy talk.  You may feel like the Gospel doesn\'92t stack up to the elite and powerful vibe of the day.  This may make you feel timid and
\f0 ,
\f1  at times
\f0 ,
\f1  ashamed of the Gospel.  But there is no need to be ashamed of the Gospel because it contains the only power available to bring people to salvation through faith.  There are no other options or ways to be reconciled to God, only through the power of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.          \uc0\u8232  	Once again, Romans 1:16, \'93For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes\'85\'94 Contained within the Gospel message is the omnipotence of God and His all-consuming power to save sinners.  God\'92s power in the Gospel of Jesus\'92 death and resurrection leads to people being saved from sin (Mt 1:21), saved from God\'92s wrath (Rom 5:9), saved from their futile way of life (1 Pet 1:18)
\f0 ,
\f1  saved from eternal separation from God (Eph 2:12) and saved from death.  Though the Gospel may seem outlandish to some and absurd to others, you and I have seen God\'92s power in the Gospel to save and transform lives.  Regardless of how the Gospel may be perceived
\f0 ,
\f1  you need not be ashamed
\f0 ,
\f1  for it is the power of God for salvation. *\
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 My best friend from junior high, high school and college died in his early forties.  We used to hang out all the time in Texas and both decided to go to the same college in Arkansas.  We both became Christians in college, became pastors, and have the same name, Jason.  One night he went to sleep and didn\'92t wake up, as he had a massive heart attack.  Once I heard the news, I booked a flight to Arkansas and flew back to our college town where I haven\'92t been in about 20 years.  It was very emotional, as I was at the Wesley Foundation where we both were discipled, and he had his dream job of leading the ministry.  He was in his zone in ministry and married with two great daughters.  And then he died.  I saw him in the coffin with the Bible on his lap.  I had a hard time processing because you are not supposed to lose your best friends and contemporaries until a bit older.  I kept having flashbacks of him in the coffin and two questions were hitting me because I\'92ll be there one day:  1. What is true?  2.  What am I supposed to do? \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Those are pretty good questions to ask yourself.  What is true?  What am I supposed to do?  Start with the first question, \'93What is true?\'94  You are saved through faith in Jesus Christ.  Salvation is a gift from God to those who believe, not earned by deeds.  This is not just faith in faith or a general faith in God but faith in Jesus Christ who has enabled sinners to have a right standing before God.  It\'92s not about you working hard to get to God but freely receiving His grace as a gift by faith.  Ephesians 2:8-9 says, \'93For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.\'94  Salvation is yours as a gift from God to be received with no added works of our own.  What is true?  You are perfectly accepted by God through faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ.  The pressure is off.  You, a sinner, are declared to be perfectly righteous in God\'92s sight through faith in Jesus Christ.  You don\'92t have to work hard to be accepted by God.  Maybe you feel pressure from lots of people: parents, kids, teachers or bosses.  Most want you to perform to be accepted.  But with God the pressure off, the anxiety can be removed.  You are accepted and declared perfect through faith in Christ.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	
\f1 Now on to the second 
\f0 pressing question, \'91What am I supposed to do?\'92  The answer has already been stated and is quite simple.  You are supposed to believe.  Put your faith in Jesus Christ.  Trying to earn your salvation will not get you a right standing before God.  Instead, \cf3 respond to the work of God with a living faith in Jesus Christ.  Put your faith in Jesus as your Savior.  You are forgiven.  Put your faith in Jesus through whom you are declared righteous.  You are accepted.  Put your faith in Jesus as your Redeemer.  You are free from the Bondage of Sin and Satan.  Put your faith in Jesus as your propitiation.  God\'92s favor is on you instead of wrath.  Faith is not just a one shot deal but also an ongoing response of God\'92s love for you in Jesus.    \
	My childhood friend is now with Jesus.  One day, I will be dead as well, and you will be to.  There is no need for fear because God has revealed what is true and what you are supposed to do.  Today is the day to walk in the truth of the Gospel and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ.
\f1 \cf0 *\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Oftentimes, we assume our lives would be so much better if Jesus was physically present on a daily basis to comfort and guide us.  This desire will come true at the Second Coming, but it misses an important truth in the here and now.  This lesson was taught to the first disciples on the last night Jesus was with them before His death.  Jesus tells them He was about to go away and they were fearful.  He encourages them with these words in John 16:7, \'93Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you.  But if I go, I will send him to you.\'94  Wow!  Jesus seems to indicate that it was to the disciples \'91advantage\'92 (and ours) that He goes away so that the Holy Spirit would come.  The implication is that at the present time, it is better to have the Holy Spirit in us than to have the physical presence of Jesus on this Earth.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Perhaps Jesus just meant while He was on this earth, He could only be at one physical location at a time, but now, the work of God could be all over the world through the Holy Spirit.  That has to be a part of it, but I think another huge \'91advantage\'92 was the Holy Spirit would now live in them and carry on the work of Jesus through them.  Jesus says in John 14:16-17, \'93And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.\'94  The third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, now lives in believers.  This is astounding and fulfills the promise of the Old Testament.  Ezekiel 36:26-27, \'93And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you.  And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.  And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.\'94  You are living within a wonderful time in history; the Holy Spirit of God now lives within a believer forever.  \
	The advantages of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit are manifold.  For starters, the Holy Spirit came into your life and awakened you.  He caused you to be born again and respond in repentance and faith to the Gospel message.  Now, He empowers you to live a holy life and gifts you to serve the church and the world.  It may seem hard to love others, but you can do it because God has poured His love into your heart by the Holy Spirit, and you can, in turn, love others (Romans 5:5).  In addition, you no longer have to keep giving in to sin, but by the Spirit\'92s power, you can resist and put it to death (Romans 8:13).  The Holy Spirit brings you comfort and strength in the midst of suffering and pain (John 14:16).  Even when the pain is too great to pray, the Holy Spirit will intercede for you according to the will of God (Romans 8:27).  He enables you to know the truth of God and to recall the words of Jesus Christ (John 14:26).  The Holy Spirit internally bears witness to remind you that you are an adopted and loved child of God (Romans 8:15-16).  He empowers you to witness and brings conviction through the Gospel of Jesus (John 16:8-11).  As you can see, the Holy Spirit is constantly active for your good and God\'92s glory.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Soon, you will be free from this corrupt world and at home with the Lord.  As you wait, may you be strengthened and encouraged by the Holy Spirit today and until the day of Christ Jesus\'92 return.*\
\
\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Galatians 5:16-17, 24: \'93But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do\'85And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.\'94 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Your \'91flesh,\'92 which is your sinful desires and passions, has been crucified with Christ.  Your \'91old self\'92 along with its passions and desires has been killed.  This means that your old sinful way of living no longer has to dominate because your \'91old self\'92 has been killed at the cross.  Romans 6:6 says, \'93We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.\'94  You are free in Christ Jesus.  Yet, how do you account for your current struggle to live a godly life?  \
	There is an internal war going on within believers between \'91the desires of the flesh\'92 vs. \'91the desires of the Spirit.\'92  The \'91flesh\'92 is the old, \'91me-centered,\'92 sinful way of doing life.  The \'91Spirit\'92 is the new, \'91Christ-centered\'92 way of doing life.  At conversion, you were filled with the Holy Spirit and given a new heart, along with new overriding motivations and desires for a \'91Christ-centered\'92 life.  Yet, the old ways are waging war within, trying to excerpt control.  James puts it this way in 4:1-2, \'93What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.\'94  When you don\'92t get what you want, your flesh tends to strike.  However, it\'92s not what you ultimately want, but something warring within, as Paul says in Romans 7:22-23, \'93For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.\'94  As a believer, you truly want what the Holy Spirit wants, but your old ways are trying to make a comeback.      \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The Good News is that you can be \'91led by the Spirit\'92 which means that you really can obey.   You can tell your old sinful ways, \'93You are dead.  You have no power over me.\'94  No matter how tempting your old ways seem, you don\'92t have to give in because you are \'91led by the Spirit.\'92  You have the power of the Holy Spirit to turn away from sin and obey the Word of God.  As you go out into the world today, your charge is to \'93walk by the Spirit.\'94   \
	Practically speaking, this means that you live a life of full strength and full dependence.  By the power of the Holy Spirit, you exert your will and effort to turn away from sin and turn to a life of righteousness.  Holiness is an act of full strength, but it\'92s also a life of complete and utter dependence.  This dependence is expressed in calling out to God on a daily basis through prayer to strengthen you to walk by the Spirit.  It\'92s a dependence upon God\'92s Word and God\'92s people to spur you on in a Spirit-led life for the glory of god.  Today is your day to once again \'91walk by the Spirit\'92 in full strength and full dependence. 
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	May the Holy Spirit impress upon you today
\f0 ,
\f1  through the Word of God
\f0 ,
\f1  that   you are an adopted Child of God.  Romans 8:14, \'93For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.\'94  This is not a mystical leading of the Holy Spirit in making big decisions about what job to take or who to marry.  The context shows that this leading of the Holy Spirit is a leading into a life of holiness.  Romans 8:13 bears this out, \'93For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.\'94  The Spirit enables you to kill sin and leads you into a life of obedience and holiness.  Those who are led in this way are called \'91sons of God.\'92  You are a child of God who is led by the Spirit of God.    \

\f0 	
\f1 Romans 8:15, \'93For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, \'91Abba! Father!\'92\'94  You are not a slave to sin and therefore \'91did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear.\'92  You don\'92t have to fear the wrath and condemnation of God to an eternity in Hell because you can\'92t keep the law.  Christ kept the law in your place, died for your sins and was raised to give you a new life reconciled to God.  You embraced this Gospel by faith as the Holy Spirit awakened you.  At conversion you received the Holy Spirit
\f0 ,
\f1  who affirms that you are an adopted \'91son\'92 of God.  You are not a slave but an adopted child of God.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Only Jesus is the natural Son of God and He has been for eternity.  But those who are united with Christ have now \'91received the Spirit of adoption as sons.\'92  The Spirit produces a cry or a prayer in you by which you say, \'91Abba!  Father.\'92  \'91Abba\'92 is an Aramaic word for Father.  Just as Jesus called God His Father so you can now interact with God in the same intimate way.  You have that intimacy created by the Spirit where you can call God, \'91Abba, Father.\'92  You are a dependent child of God who can call out to the One who loves you so much that He adopted you as His own.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 	
\f1 This intimate close connection is often depicted in an earthly adoption.  It is natural for an adopted child to take on the new family\'92s last name.  It\'92s why I can say to my adopted daughter Mary, \'93You are a Lancaster now.\'94  There is such a close connection between her and our family that she is now one of us.  But there is a special legal connection she has with me as her Father.  Through all of the legal proceedings
\f0 ,
\f1  she had to not only take on our last name
\f0 ,
\f1  but also my first name as her middle name.  All of her documents showed that her official name was, \'93Mary Jason Lancaster.\'94  Isn\'92t that cool?  Now, we don\'92t want her to grow up with a boy\'92s middle name so we changed it.  But I know of the special connection between her and me.  In a similar way, you are in the family of God with all of your brothers and sisters in Christ
\f0 ,
\f1  but there is this special connection you have with the Father who loves you and calls you His own.  And your response is to cry, \'91Abba, Father.\'92  \
	You can actually experience this connection to the Father by the Holy Spirit.  Romans 8:16, \'93The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God.\'94  If you are a believer, the Holy Spirit ministers to your spirit that you are a child of God.  It is not a ministry of fear but one of confirmation and assurance that you are God\'92s adopted child.  May the ministry of the Holy Spirit assure you today that you are an adopted child of God
\f0 ,
\f1  and may you cry out, \'93Abba, Father.\'94*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Who owns you?  If you are a believer, the Bible indicates that God owns you (\'93You are not your own; you were bought at a price.\'94 1 Corinthians 6:19-20).  Yet, practically speaking, sometimes you act like you own you.  You spend money like it\'92s yours to spend.  You waste time like it\'92s yours to waste.  You make career, school, and relationship decisions as if they are yours alone to make.  You do things with your mind and your body like they are yours to use however you wish.  And when life doesn\'92t go the way you want it to, you complain, as if your life was even yours in the first place.  You are acting like you own you. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The truth is that you don\'92t own you but God owns you, and that is good news.  This truth can free you from the bondage of your own control, expectations and manipulation of life.  This truth will free you from your greatest enemy, you.  Since God owns you, the pressure\'92s off!  The pressure is off you trying to control life the way you want or set expectations that must be met or manipulate life for the desired outcome.  You are His, and He is in control.  He can do with you whatever He wants.  Your only response is not to control life, or expect certain things in life, or to manipulate life, but simply to live for the one who owns you.  \
	Ephesians 1:13, \'93In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit.\'94  What does it mean that you were sealed with the Holy Spirit?  A seal is like a branding or a marking of ownership.  You can think of cattle being branded on the outside to mark their owner.  The same is true of you, but you were branded or sealed on the inside with the Holy Spirit.  2 Corinthians 1:21-22, \'93And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us, and who has also put his seal on us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.\'94  The Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, has been placed in your heart as a seal of ownership.  If you are a believer, you don\'92t need to be sealed with the Holy Spirit again, it is a done deal.  At conversion, you were permanently sealed with the Holy Spirit as God\'92s possession.  If He has sealed you, you will make it from here (Earth) to there (Heaven) because you are His property.  In the Hymn, \'93Come Thou Fount\'92 it says, \'93Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, Prone to leave the God I love; Here\'92s my heart, O take and seal it, Seal it for Thy courts above.\'94  You are prone to wander and prone to leave the God you love.  However, God has sealed your heart with the Holy Spirit to keep you on track, so you will reach God\'92s courts above.     \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You don\'92t own you, but God owns you, and that is Good News.  Since God owns you, the pressure\'92s off!  There is no more pressure to control your life the way you want or to set strict expectations or manipulate life for the desired outcome.  God is your owner, so live to praise Him in your heart, words and actions today for His Glory.
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 After college, I decided to go to seminary, but I did not know where.  I visited schools in Atlanta, Durham, Chicago, Los Angeles and Dallas.  I spent a lot of time in prayer basically saying, \'93God, if you will just tell me what to do, then I will do it.\'94  I eventually went to seminary in Dallas.  At the end of seminary, I was locked in on someone I wanted to marry, but I was freaking out because my parents had got divorced, and I didn\'92t know how to date.  I spent a lot of time praying, \'93God, if you will just tell me what to do, then I will do it.\'94  I eventually married the girl who is now my wife.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Maybe you are trying to make some big decisions in your life, and you are hoping to figure out what God wants you to do.  You may pray, \'93God, if you will just tell me what to do, then I will do it.\'94  It can be on small things or big things, but if God would just somehow reveal to you what He wants you to do then you will do it.  Let me just stop:  Would you really do what God tells you to do with your life?  I\'92m a little skeptical.  Let\'92s say there is a guy who really wants to ask a girl out, and he is praying and asking God whether or not He should do it.  He\'92s like, \'93God, if you will just tell me what to do, then I will do it.\'94  What if God said, \'93I\'92ve already told you so many things in my Word I want you to do to grow in me, but you are not listening.  And now you want me to speak to you about going out with, loving and leading some girl when you can\'92t even lead yourself.\'94  Sometimes you want God to speak to you and to guide you, but you aren\'92t too eager to pay attention to what He has already said.  You fail to see that His Word brought alive by the Holy Spirit and infused with wisdom from others is Him speaking to you on a regular basis.  You don\'92t want to hear His truth, and you act as if He is not speaking at all. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Yet, God speaks through His Word all the time if you are willing to listen.  2 Timothy 3:16, \'93All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness.\'94  All of God\'92s Word is profitable for your life.  From Genesis to Revelation, God is speaking truth to you so that you might know Him and walk in His ways.  Sometimes, His Word rebukes and corrects.  Other times, it encourages and comforts.  All in all, God is using His Word to train you to live a life of godliness by walking in His ways.  God is speaking to you all the time through His Word; are you listening?  \
	As you respond to God\'92s Word, you will notice that God is shaping and leading you by His Word and His Spirit.  That\'92s what you want when it\'92s all said and done.  When you pray, \'93God, just tell me what you want me to do and I will do it,\'94 that prayer is answered as you are being shaped by the revealed will of God in His Word.  And over time, God\'92s Word will shape your big decisions in life.  All the details of majors and marriage and careers will come at the right time through community, prayer, wisdom and discernment.  You need to come to the Lord on a daily basis, before His Word, with a heart that has a listening disposition.  God wants to speak to you today; will you listen?
\f1 *\
\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Let me tell you the best news ever for improving your quality of life.  God has set a plan in place to redeem you from His wrath and deliver you from sin through Jesus Christ.  He communicated His plan to you in His Word.  If you repent of your sins and put your faith in Jesus Christ, you will be saved.  Along with this Gospel, He has communicated everything you need for life and godliness.  The Bible tells about how God is in control and sovereign, how He is working for your good and how you can live to be happy in God.  Yet, you probably don\'92t always read it like you should.  You may go to website after website and research ways to lose weight, be happier, raise your kids right, get a date, make money and be successful.  But you have God speaking truth to you everyday through His Word, and you don\'92t read it like you should.      \
	Rather than heaping up guilt and shame for a lack of time in God\'92s Word, focus on the happiness and joy you can get by immersing yourself in the Bible.  Psalm 119 is filled with such joy as it demonstrates the Psalmists passionate pursuit of God and His Word.  Psalm 119:1 says, \'93Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the LORD!\'94  The Psalmist points out people who are walking in the favor of God.  There is a certain amount of blessedness, happiness and joy that can be found in walking in the \'91law of God.\'92  The Israelites were to view the Old Testament law, such as the Ten Commandments, as instructions to increase their happiness, not as restrictions to decrease their happiness.  When God\'92s children strive for a life of integrity and blamelessness in line with God\'92s Word, there is a blessing of God\'92s favor that rests upon them.  Perhaps you have experienced this blessedness in your own life.  Maybe after a long sin struggle, you finally repent and decide to obey God.  At first, it may be painful to resist the temptation, but you know that you are walking in a way that pleases the Lord and gives you joy.  \
	Psalm 119:2 says, \'93Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart.\'94  The Psalmist continues to emphasize the blessedness of those who \'91keep his testimonies\'92 and seek the Lord \'91with their whole heart.\'92  These are the people who are not just seeking a book full of laws or instructions on how to conduct their lives but are seeking God with \'91their whole heart.\'92  They understand true happiness and blessedness lie in God and His Word.  \
	Sometimes, you may have a hard time believing God can make you completely happy in Himself.  Perhaps you think that happiness is found in God plus other things.  So, you\'92ll take God, but you will also seek after comfort, security and happiness outside of God.  However, true joy is found in seeking God with your whole heart.  It comes through surrendering your whole will and life to Him.  You can cultivate seeking God with your whole heart immersing yourself in the Word of God.  Even on the days you are not convinced God and His Word can completely satisfy, sit down by faith, open the Bible and dive in.  May God surprise you once again through His life-giving and joy-filling Word.  
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 What would it look like to come to God\'92s Word on a daily basis and have a listening disposition?  What if you approached God with an eagerness to hear and respond to His Word?  I don\'92t know about you, but I can come to God\'92s Word and be so far off.  My mind is distracted with many cares.  Rather than heart engagement, I can fall into a boring routine of robotic reading.  What can help? \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Let me suggest a simple prayer that I learned many years ago from pastor John Piper.  The acronym is I.O.U.S.  I \'96 \'93Incline my heart to your testimonies and not to selfish gain\'94 (Psalm 119:36).  Start by asking God to turn your heart toward His Word and away from selfish pursuits.  O \'96 \'93Open my eyes that I may behold wonderful things in your Law\'94 (Psalm 119:18).  Often God\'92s Word seems unimpressive, so you are asking to see His Word as indeed wonderful.  U \'96 \'93Unite my heart to fear your name\'94 (Psalm 86:11).  A healthy fear of God puts you in a position to hear from your authoritative heavenly Father.  S \'96 \'93Satisfy me in the morning with your unfailing love that I may be glad and rejoice all my days\'94 (Psalm 90:14).  Ultimately, you want joy in God and His love for you. We are all dull and in need of God\'92s grace to hear His Word and respond.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Take some extra time today before your Scripture memory work to pray through each letter of I.O.U.S.  Prayerfully set yourself up to hear and respond to God\'92s Word.
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	You must be careful to avoid starting to think that reading the Word of God is enough, that you don\'92t need a response of obedience.  James 1:22, \'93But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.\'94  You can be deceived into thinking that just because you hear a sermon or read the Bible that it equals obedience.  Spirit-empowered obedience is the appropriate response to the Word of God.  \

\f0 	
\f1 Jesus demonstrates the importance of obedience to His words in a stunning parable.  Matthew 7:24-27, \'93Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock.  And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock.  And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.  And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it.\'94  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The focus here is on the builders and what they build.  The builder who built his house on the solid foundation of rock is pointing to the one who heard Jesus\'92 words and actually obeyed them.  The storm of God\'92s future judgment came, and they stood firm because they had a converted heart that produced obedience.  But the builder who built his house on the sand is the foolish one who hears Jesus\'92 words but does not do them.  The judgment of God came, and the disobedient life they were building fell with a great crash.  Both groups heard, but hearing was not enough.  If you do His words, they lead to life, but throwing off His words leads to destruction in Hell.  Why would you want to ignore obedience to God\'92s Word and build your life apart from Him?  Of course, it\'92s easier and more popular to just strike out on your own. But you have to see that, no matter how good things are going right now, there will come a day of destruction, of eternal punishment in Hell.  \
	Once, I had some building done in my house when my kitchen floor was replaced.  In clearing the way for the new floor, they had to rip out the current floor, which turned into ripping out 4 floors.  The first layer was a retro floor when the house was built in the 1950s.  It was probably not replaced until the late 60s or early 70s with a groovy floor that looks like a sparkly disco ball.  The 3\super rd\nosupersub  layer was an awesome, bright, yellow patterned floor.  Then, probably in the 90s they went with a floor that was plain and bland.  Regardless of how perfect the floor was at the time of installation, the builder ripped up all the layers and replaced them with our nice, new floor.  However, no matter how cool we think our new floor is, one day it will be destroyed. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	If you are hearing the Word and not obeying, you are building your life apart from Jesus.  You may be building your life apart from Jesus right now and it may look as good as my new kitchen floor.  Things are going well for you, and you are generally happy with what you are building.  But a day of destruction is coming for all those who refuse to take Jesus\'92 words and obey what He says.  A day of judgment is coming for all those who refuse to obey out of a converted heart.  May you be one who is eager to hear the Word and obey by the power of the Spirit.*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	It\'92s hard to love.  Perhaps you can love in bursts and spurts, but to love over the long haul is very difficult.  I could give you some tips and tricks, but they would probably fall flat when you felt inability or apathy.  Methods on how to love can be helpful, but you have a greater need than methodology, you have a need for theology.  That\'92s why you must go deeper into theology and deeper into the origin of love seen in the very character of God Himself. 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	The Apostle John says in 1 John 4:7, \'93Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God.\'94  The origin and source of love is God.  Not only is \'91love from God
\f0 ,
\f1 \'92 but also \'91God is love.\'92  1 John 4:16, \'93So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us.  God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.\'94  The key attribute of God is love, and He has expressed His love to us through Jesus Christ.  \
	1 John 4:9-10, 14
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. 10\'a0In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins\'85 And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world
\f0 .
\f1 \'94  How do you know that God loves you?  Because He sent His Son Jesus Christ to die on the cross for your sins.  Jesus took on flesh in the incarnation because God wanted to express His love to you.  More specifically, His love for you was shown by the sacrifice of Jesus as a propitiation for sinners.  Propitiation simply means a sacrifice to turn away anger or wrath.  God\'92s anger was against you for your sins
\f0 ,
\f1  and if not dealt with
\f0 ,
\f1  it would have led to an eternal separation from Him.  But God\'92s love was expressed in pouring out His wrath fully on His Son on the cross instead of on you.  Now if you look to Jesus in faith you will find forgiveness.   There is no greater news in the world to embrace than the fact you are completely loved and forgiven through faith in Jesus Christ.  \
	Part of John\'92s argument is that the substitutionary death of Jesus should lead believers to love one another as He has loved us.  1 John 4:11-12, \'93Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. 12
\f0\b \'a0
\f1\b0 No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us.\'94  You can now love others because you have been loved through the cross of Christ.  The sacrificial love that has been expressed to you can now spill out in sacrificial ways toward others. God does not reject you but loves and accepts you in Jesus, and now you can do the same with others.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Are you starting to see why theology matters?  You can have all the conflict-resolution skills in the world
\f0 ,
\f1  but when someone rejects you
\f0 ,
\f1  what happens?  You are still left with the personal knowledge that you are completely accepted by the one who dearly and deeply loves you.  God is the one who has the reason to reject you
\f0 ,
\f1  but because of the propitiation on the cross
\f0 ,
\f1  He accepts you and loves you.  Now you can love others out of this position of acceptance and grace.  God is love, and His love has been expressed to you.  Now
\f0 ,
\f1  by God\'92s power
\f0 ,
\f1  his love can be expressed through you.  The ultimate motivator to love is God\'92s love. *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 \cf3 You probably want to accomplish great things in your life (and that is not a bad thing).  You want to see the fulfillment of your dreams and visions.  This can cause you to work hard and to go all out.  But if along the way you fail to engage others with love, it all comes to nothing.  \cf0 We can do great things, even great things for God, but if we don\'92t have love then it\'92s all cancelled out.  It means nothing.  \cf3 Greatness - Love = Nothing.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 	That's the way the Apostle Paul begins the famous love chapter of I Corinthians 13.  Paul wrote to a church in Corinth who had great spiritual gifts but were lacking in love.  They were bursting with spiritual gifts, especially the more expressive gifts such as speaking in tongues, prophesying and faith.  Yet, in the midst of exercising their gifts, they failed to adequately love.  Their use of the gifts was more about showing off rather than the building up of others.  Paul doesn\'92t throw out the gifts, but shows that they are worthless without the greater emphasis of love.  Once again, Greatness \'96 Love = Nothing.  \
	In the first three verses, notice the great abilities and accomplishments that can be done for God.  I Corinthians 13:1-3, \'93If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.\'94  A person can speak in tongues, but without love, it\'92s just noise.  \'93And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.\'94  Even the gift of prophecy or the great gift of faith, that can move mountains, is nothing without love.  \'93If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.\'94  Giving away all your possessions to serve the Lord and even sacrificing your body to death in martyrdom gains nothing if you don\'92t have love.  Greatness \'96 Love = Nothing.    	\
	There is this drive within most of us to accomplish great things in life and great things for God.  But if we leave out love, it comes to nothing.  I Corinthians 13 always tends to slow me down and give me a picture of who I want to become.  In my natural, unrestrained state, I am driven to accomplish great things for God.  Thus, slowing down to love is difficult, but it also brings perspective.  The silly image I have to demonstrate this concept is a famous NBA basketball player.  He played the game of his life in a pivotal game seven to help his team win the championship.  A few hours later, his picture was taken eating breakfast with friends and family at Denny\'92s.  He wasn\'92t out clubbing and partying with all the celebrities, but rather having a simple meal.  It\'92s a contrasting image of Glory on the Podium to love around the table at Denny\'92s.      \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 	It\'92s the winner\'92s podium, the confetti, the parties and the highlight reels that many tend to focus on.  You get pumped about utilizing your gifts to maximum potential.  You get pumped about exercising your faith, giving sacrificially and even laying your life on the line for Jesus.  But sitting around and loving other people is so boring, bland and mundane.  Yet, living a life of love is what it\'92s about.  A Fireman saves a life, but he is still called to love the guys at the Firehouse.  A mother plans a great Disney Vacation, but when it\'92s over, she has the everyday task to love.  A student goes on a summer mission trip, but she must still come home and love her parents.  Greatness \'96 Love = Nothing.  However, when we inject love in our lives, it brings glory to God because love is what it is all about. 
\f1 \cf0 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 \cf3 I Corinthians 13:4-7, \'93Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.\'94  This description of love could be a beautiful description of the love of God.  For example, let\'92s start out by inserting \'91Jesus\'92 in the place of \'91love.\'92  \'93Jesus is patient and kind; Jesus does not envy or boast; Jesus is not arrogant or rude.\'94  Jesus loved the Father and others perfectly.  Yet, this is not a description of God\'92s love but supposed to be a description of your love.  Instead of inserting Jesus\'92 name, insert your own.  I\'92ll use mine for example, \'93Jason is patient and kind; Jason does not envy or boast; Jason is not arrogant or rude.\'94  I\'92m getting uncomfortable and convicted because I know I fall short of the standards of love.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 	How are we supposed to pull this off?  You can\'92t, but God can.  Two thoughts here:  1.  Since Jesus does not fall short of love\'92s standards, He keeps them for you before a Holy God.  Through faith, you can be accepted by God because Jesus loved perfectly in life and in death.  Through His life, death and resurrection you can be counted loving in Christ, before God.  2.  Now as a believer, the Holy Spirit gives you the ability to imitate His love.  You have been given a new heart because the Holy Spirit has been poured into your heart.  Romans 5:5b, \'93\'85God\'92s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.\'94  The Christian should never say, \'93I can\'92t love.\'94  You can love because God\'92s love has been poured into your life, and now, overflows to others.  \
	You are called to love others from your heart.  Notice that most of the descriptions of love include both actions and attitudes, which really gets at the heart.  Look again at verses 4-7, \'93Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth.  Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.\'94  Love is a selfless sacrifice.  If you base love on what you can get out of it or how it makes you feel, you will have a hard time loving.          \
	It\'92s hard to be patient when someone won\'92t get their act together, but God has been patient with you.  Maybe you don\'92t feel like being kind to others because they don\'92t deserve it, but God has been kind to you though you don\'92t deserve it.  It\'92s easy to burn with envy, but do you not truly believe that God is enough?  Boasting in self is natural, but highlighting the good in others is supernatural.  Arrogance and rudeness go hand in hand, but humility and courtesy come through self-forgetfulness.  Notice in the middle that love does not insist on its own way; it\'92s not about you or your rights but about serving others.  Love is not irritable in the sense that it is easily set off, but instead it lets stuff slide.  Love is not resentful in the sense that it doesn\'92t keep a record of wrongs to be brought up at just the right time.  When someone reaps what they have sown, it\'92s easy to rejoice at wrongdoing.  But not love.  It takes another path and only rejoices with the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.  It\'92s like the famous worship song that is sung to God, \'93Your Love never fails, it never gives up, it never runs out on me.\'94  You are called to love others in a similar way, as God\'92s love spills out of you and onto others. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Love is often sacrificial in nature.  Consider the startling and radical words of Jesus in Matthew 5:43-44, \'93You have heard that it was said, \'91You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.\'92\'94  The Old Testament said \'91love your neighbor,\'92 and many of the teachers of Jesus\'92 day had an extended version that said, \'91and hate your enemies.\'92   Jesus counters the popular teaching of the day with a call to love and pray for your enemies. \
	Jesus follows with some motivation in Matthew 5:45,  \'93So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven.  For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.\'94  You can\'92t love your enemies because you are good person, but because you have been changed from the inside out and now reflect the character of your Father in Heaven.  God consistently loves those who are wicked and evil to Him and to others.  By His grace, He causes the sun to rise and the rain to pour even for the benefit of his enemies.  Why would He do that?  Because they are people created in His image, people who are valuable to Him and that He desires to be saved.  If that is how God consistently treats the wicked, we are to imitate our Father in Heaven and do the same. \
	Jesus continues in Matthew 5:46-47, \'93For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?  And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same?\'94  Jesus is calling His followers to go above and beyond the way the world functions.  Even the despised tax collectors can love those who love them back.  And even the pagan Gentiles know how to greet those they are connected with.  There is no special heavenly favor for doing what comes naturally.  When we love those who love us back or hang out with those with whom we get along, what more are we doing than others?  We are supposed to be a distinct people who are set apart and function in the radical norms of the Kingdom. \
	Jesus pushes us to perfection in Matthew 5:48, \'93You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.\'94  I see this no different than the calls in the Bible to be Holy as God is Holy (Lev 20:26; 1 Pet 1:16).  Once you see that you can\'92t keep God\'92s Holy standard, you cry out to Him over your sin and find forgiveness in the cross of Christ.  This brings you to the perfection of Christ and His righteousness that you are clothed in, so in the eyes of God you are perfect in Him. Now, you are to live out this reality in a life of holiness and pursuing your Father\'92s perfection by His grace and power.  Part of this is reflecting the heart and character of God to love and pray for your enemies. \
	Take some time to think through those who may be opposed to you or even just those people who are difficult to get along with.  Take some time to pray for them, and ask God for wisdom on specific ways you can love them today. *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	The Gospel is not meant to terminate on the believer, but it is to be shared.  After the death and resurrection of Jesus, the church was active and bold in sharing the Gospel.  The book of Acts depicts the acts of Jesus from heaven by the Holy Spirit through His people to build His Church.  This building of the church through proclamation finds it root in the commission of Jesus before He left this earth.  Acts 1:8, \'93But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.\'94  The implications of this important verse explained the power of God behind the mission that is still available to believers today.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Verse 8, \'93But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you...\'94  The mission was going to be one enabled by Grace.  The Holy Spirit of God was going to empower them with a mighty strength and boldness to carry out the work.  Following Christ is a work of Grace from start to finish.  You are saved by God\'92s Grace through repentance and faith in the work of Jesus on your behalf that you do not deserve.  And you persevere and do His work by Grace.  His Grace transforms you into a dwelling of the Holy Spirit, and you are now a person empowered by the Holy Spirit to proclaim the Gospel.  The mission is not one empowered by your own self-will but empowered by God\'92s Holy Spirit.  God not only wants you to tell others about the great work of God through Jesus, but He also gives you the power to do it.  
\f0 \

\f1 	Verse 8b, \'93\'85and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.\'94  The enabling power of the Holy Spirit was to be a witness of Jesus.  The idea of witness is to give an eyewitness account of what has been seen and heard.  The Apostles could do this with first-hand experience of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.  You do it based upon the historical facts of the death and resurrection of Jesus and the Holy Spirit\'92s awakening and empowering.  You are to witness to the fact of the historical life, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.  Tell others what happened, but you must also give them the Biblical interpretation of the facts \'96 that Jesus died in the place of sinners, bears the wrath of God for sinners and offers His perfect righteousness to sinners.  Don\'92t stop there
\f0 ,
\f1  but go on to speak of the Good News of people separated from God can be reconciled to Him through repentance and faith in Jesus.  Talk about the historical reality of the cross and the modern day interpretation for every human being.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 	
\f1 But don\'92t stop there.  You are a witness to the fact of something that has happened in you.  You have repented of your sins and you have found forgiveness in Jesus Christ.  Tell your personal story of being saved from your sins and the life you have in Christ.  Tell your story in such a way that still focuses on the acts of Jesus.  But don\'92t forget when you speak with someone about Jesus, it\'92s not up to your strength and wisdom but God\'92s.  His power should give you the boldness to step out and proclaim the Good News of Jesus Christ, even today.*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Return once again to Acts 1:8, \'93But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.\'94  The disciples were empowered by the Holy Spirit to be witnesses starting in Jerusalem, then to spread out to Judea and Samaria
\f0 ,
\f1  then to the ends of the earth.  These locations are basically the structure of the book of Acts.  The first 7 chapters have the Gospel going throughout Jerusalem.  Then
\f0 ,
\f1  chapters 8-12 have the Gospel in Judea and Samaria and then the rest of the book takes the Gospel to Rome.  Then
\f0 ,
\f1  the book abruptly ends
\f0 ,
\f1  but the work is not finished, as the witnesses are to speak the Gospel throughout the world.  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	Notice that the Gospel is not just a Jewish Gospel, but it was to go throughout the world and invite all into the Kingdom through repentance and faith in Jesus.  God\'92s love is for people in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria and the nations.  The Gospel is not just to be proclaimed to a few, select people, but to the whole world.  Think about this broad Gospel exposure in terms of the way a family cares for one another.   A few years ago, a couple of my kids were sick around the same time.  First, my 4-year-old girl.  We offered her care and comfort.  Then
\f0 ,
\f1  as soon as she was better
\f0 ,
\f1  my 8-year-old girl got sick
\f0 ,
\f1  and we offered her care and comfort.  We were ready to do the same for the rest of our kids if they got sick as well.  But what if we only limited our care to the first kid or got tired after caring for the two of them?  What if our compassion had limits and only stretched so far?  That would be absurd because we care about them all.  God cares about the people of the nations
\f0 ,
\f1  and He didn\'92t want the apostles to narrow their focus to just the Jews
\f0 ,
\f1  nor does He want us to narrow our focus to people like us while we ignore the rest.   \
	It\'92s so hard to see the necessity of broad Gospel exposure, especially for those who live in big cities.  As cities are made up of people with diverse religions and backgrounds, it\'92s tempting to think that the Gospel is only for us Christians.  Maybe you are hesitant to share with your Muslim or Hindu friends, colleagues and fellow students.  You are hesitant to share with the peaceful Zen person, the happy Bahai person, the confident secularist or the cultural Christian.  If you are not sharing the Gospel with them, with whom in the world does Jesus have in mind that we share the Gospel?  The Gospel is for them!  You have been called to love people from all cultures and religious backgrounds by sharing the Gospel with boldness.  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	Start off your day with this simple prayer, \'93Lord, I am at your disposal today.  Please show me who to talk to about Jesus.\'94  You will be shocked how your witnessing desire and power comes alive.  You may have taken your child on a play date to the park with the same moms for months.  But this time is different.  In dependence upon the Holy Spirit
\f0 ,
\f1  you feel inwardly compelled to tell the Hindu woman about Jesus Christ.  Or, you may have talked to the same people over lunch at school or work for weeks
\f0 ,
\f1  but now
\f0 ,
\f1  you feel compelled to speak the Gospel.  I love and hate this feeling all at the same time.  I love that the Lord is leading and prompting me to speak about Jesus
\f0 ,
\f1  but I hate it because in my flesh, I resist it so much.  But what an exciting life to lead \'96 one empowered and led by the Holy Spirit to carry out Kingdom work.  Live your days with an open mind and heart to the leading and the empowering of the Holy Spirit to proclaim the Gospel to the nations.*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 At our church, we have a certain ethos that describes who we are and who we want to become as followers of Jesus Christ.  Part of the ethos is that we want to cultivate a culture of people living out a \'93Pervasive Gospel.\'94  A culture full of people who are all about growing in the Gospel and who want to see others impacted by the Gospel locally and globally.  This culture of a Pervasive Gospel is what the Apostle Paul was cultivating in the church in Rome.  His letter focused on the Good News of Jesus and how the church could grow and see the Gospel spread.  Paul says in Romans 15:20, \'93\'85I make it my ambition to preach the gospel\'85\'94  The specifics of his ambition had him preaching the Gospel in areas where people have never heard of Jesus.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	You may never go to unreached people in far away lands, but it should still be your ambition to share the Gospel with others.  Part of your mission as a believer is to interact with others who don\'92t know the love of God in Christ and to share it with them.  People need to know the Gospel \'96 that God loves them so much, He sent His Son to die on the cross to provide a way for sinners to be reconciled to Him by faith.  Those of us who have been impacted by the love of God in Christ should be eager to share it with those who do not follow Jesus.  \
	At the present time, it is not very cool or trendy within the church to be about sharing the Gospel.  The elevated talk these days is on ministries of mercy and justice.  I am all-in for this ministry, but we must not leave out Gospel proclamation.  We can physically help people all day long, but if we ignore their most pressing need - to be reconciled to a Holy God, who stands against them and will not accept them apart from Christ \'96 then we can\'92t say we really love them.  Because we care about the eternal destiny of humans, we want to make it our ambition to tell them about Jesus.  And because we love them, we tell them that there is hope through the Gospel.  That is why we want the Gospel to pervade our church and then move through us to the rest of the world.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	That\'92s what Paul was all about as he proclaimed the Gospel and attempted to stir up the church to do the same.  The church that proclaims the Gospel is a church made up of individuals who make it their ambition to share the Gospel.  Are you one of those individuals who make this your ambition?  In a grace-filled way I say, YOU SHOULD BE.  Every believer should be.  Let me keep pressing you to action in sharing your faith by the power of the Holy Spirit.  How about sharing the Gospel with at least one person this week?  Pray right now about who needs to hear about God\'92s love for them in the Gospel of Jesus Christ and pray for boldness to share with them.  Whether you live among the reached or the unreached, make it your ambition to preach the Gospel.
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Can you imagine being so passionate about something that it was your ambition to see it spread all over the world?  Once, my wife and I met a woman with a global passion.  We had a lengthy conversation with the first female employee of Facebook.  Sheepishly, we told her that neither one of us were on Facebook and didn\'92t plan to sign up any time soon.  She was patient with us and even eager to articulate her passion to see Facebook benefit the whole world.  The goal she was particularly amped about was seeing Facebook hit 1 billion users around the world.  We told her how we were overseas and met people who were connecting on Facebook and that it\'92s happening in countries all over the world.  Imagine how awesome that must be for her to see her passion, one she pours so much of her time and energy in, spread around the world (Update: My wife is now on Facebook but I\'92m still a hold out).   \
	Maybe you have a passion that you would love to see impact the world in some way.  If you are in the medical or research field then you would be so encouraged if the advances that you have been a part of could impact the world.  Perhaps you are a gifted musician or artist and would love to be a part of spreading your gifts into a variety of cultures.  If you are a business person, you probably would like to promote work that enhances the common good in a variety of economies.  But as good as all those endeavors are, none of them compare to the one great passion that should unite all Christians: to leverage your life so that more and more people from all over the world become committed followers of Jesus.  It\'92s an overriding zeal to go all out in making disciples of the nations and taking part in what has been called the Great Commission.  No matter your vocation or calling in life, the Great Commission is the one unifying mission and passion for all believers, for all time.  \
	Jesus sums up the Great Commission given to His disciples in Matthew 20:18-20, \'93And Jesus came and said to them, \'91All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.\'92\'94  Jesus wants you to make disciples, which means He wants you to take part in leveraging your life so other people will follow Him.  Just like His early disciples trusted, followed, obeyed and worshipped Him, He wants you to invest in others so they will trust, follow, obey and worship Jesus.  And this is not something you go at alone or just with the church, but Jesus promises to be with you.  \'93And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.\'94  He is not so much with you for comfort, but He is with you in the sense that He will see to it that, through the church, His mission will go forward.  His plan will ultimately succeed, as people from every tribe and language and nation will worship Jesus. \
	Go ahead and pursue your ambition and passion according to your unique gifting and calling, but the one overarching mission of making disciples is the one unifying ambition and passion for all believers.  May you go all out on Jesus\'92 mission until He comes back in all of His glory. 
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 A few years back, my wife and I went to Jamaica.  They have beautiful resorts all over the place.  Though we did not have the privilege of staying at one of these places, I hear they are unbelievable.  The food is all you can eat pretty much all the time.  The drinks are abundant.  The rooms, the pools and the beach set-ups are magnificent.  The entertainment is top notch, and the wait staff is ready at your service.  Now I am trying not to be jealous or bitter because we lacked the resort setting. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	As we stayed outside of the sweet resorts, we experienced the heart of the culture of Jamaica.  We saw the vast poverty and suffering.  One day, we went to an orphanage and saw the abandoned and abused children dying for love and affection.  We interacted with people who were poor and couldn\'92t get jobs.  We observed the drug culture, as I was offered drugs and drug paraphernalia.  At the same time, it was a place permeated with the Gospel and people who love Jesus.  In the midst of the suffering, they are clinging to Christ.  Nonetheless, there were plenty of opportunities for compassion. \
	Imagine if I went over to one of those fancy resorts and talked to people about what was going on outside the resort.  I would tell them about the orphans that needed just the basic peanut butter and jelly to survive.  Someone on the resort might say, \'93But it\'92s all you can eat.\'94  I would speak about the danger and abuses that happen to the vulnerable.  Someone on the resort might say, \'93But look at all the security guards.\'94  If I told them how people were really sick from the drug-culture, which trickles down to the kids.  Someone on the resort might say, \'93People look healthy.\'94  Then, what would happen if I really said, \'93Look, let me get to the point. People are suffering and they need your help. Would you please step off the resort and come and help them?\'94\
	The reality is just about all of us, including myself, live on the resort everyday. We have comfortable lives and live, for the most part, in prosperous surroundings. There is not much poverty, hunger, disease or oppression going on where we live.  This is nothing to feel guilty about, but just the way it is. Yet, we are called as Christians to engage and help those who are in need, especially our brothers and sisters in the Lord.  However, in our normal day-to-day routines living on the resort, we will probably not bump up against such suffering.  That is why I believe that our calling in particular is to step off the resort, to step out of our comfortable lives in order to show compassion to those who are suffering.  It may be just down the street, or it may be around the world.  The call to compassion in the Bible is clear that if we don\'92t obey it, we don\'92t know Jesus, and we will be judged.  It is time to step off the resort. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Perhaps you have already stepped off the resort and are in the midst of caring for those who are suffering.  Keep plowing ahead.  Maybe you have the heart to show compassion, but you are not quite sure what to do.  You really do love Jesus, but you have no outlet to love those who are suffering.  Over the next few days, as you memorize God\'92s Word about serving the \'91least of these,\'92 ask God to show you the part you play.  May God stir you to compassion, so that you will step off the resort. 
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 In a familiar passage, Jesus tells his disciples what it will be like at the judgment.  Matthew 25:31-40, \'93When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the King will say to those on his right, \'91Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.\'92 Then the righteous will answer him, saying, \'91Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?\'92 And the King will answer them, \'91Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.\'92\'94\
	You, along with the rest of the humanity, will appear before the judgment seat of Christ.  The sheep will be placed on the right side of favor, while on the left side will be the goats who are to face punishment in Hell.  This is not salvation based upon works because salvation is based upon faith in Jesus Christ alone.  Yet, true faith will always produce works.  The separation of the sheep and the goats is based upon those who had faith manifested in compassionate works and those who had no faith at all.  Jesus is saying to those on His right, who are about to inherit the Kingdom, that there were things done to Him by believers that were a manifestation of their faith.  When Jesus was in need, they stepped up and met His need. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Jesus says, \'91as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.\'92 What they have done for vulnerable Christians, they have done it for Him.  This passage is often misinterpreted to mean that when you help all the poor and suffering then you are helping Jesus.  Yet, He is saying that when you help Christians in need, you are indeed serving Jesus Himself, who is connected with them.  This doesn\'92t mean that you don\'92t help non-Christians.  Galatians 6:10 captures the idea well, \'93So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.\'94  Yes, you serve and show compassion to non-Christians.  But the emphasis here is on how you associate and care for your fellow Christians in need. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Jesus is saying that when they visited other believers who were in jail, perhaps Gospel messengers who were persecuted, then they were visiting Him.  Even today prisons are difficult places, but no matter the reason a believer (or unbeliever) is there, they are to be visited and shown compassion.  In addition, when you give food and drink to the hungry and thirsty believers around the world, you are doing it to Jesus.  When you visit sick and suffering Christians, you are visiting Jesus.  You are not doing these things to earn salvation, but rather, because you already have a changed heart and love Jesus.  If you love Jesus, you will love His people and all people.  The evidence of faith is caring for those who are weak and lowly with Gospel produced compassion. 
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 As you are moved to have compassion on others, may it always be fueled by the compassion the Lord Jesus has had on you.  Divine compassion aimed at you empowers earthly compassion aimed at others.  Consider the compassion of Jesus aimed at two blind men crying out for healing.  Matthew 20:29-34, \'93And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him.  And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside, and when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, \'91Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!\'92  The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent, but they cried out all the more, \'91Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!\'92  And stopping, Jesus called them and said, \'91What do you want me to do for you?\'92  They said to him, \'91Lord, let our eyes be opened.\'92 And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him.\'94  The Son of David is filled with compassion.  While Jesus was on this earth, He was filled with compassion for the suffering.  You will find many instances in the Scripture where Jesus is inwardly moved with compassion toward those who are lost and suffering.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Now, as the exalted Lord, He is still filled with compassion and ready to help you in your time of need.  Hebrews 4:15-16, \'93For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. \'a0Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.\'94  The Lord Jesus wants you to come to Him in your time of suffering whether physical, emotional or spiritual.  You can keep going to the Lord over and over again.  \
	One instance where I had to go to the Lord over and over again was when my kids kept landing in the emergency room.  In a short span, my middle daughter broke her arm, and then, my oldest son injured his thumb.  After that, my five-year-old son had two accidents that put us in the ER twice within 24 hours.  On one occasion, he smashed his head against the wall and went to the ER to glue his scalp back together.  The next day, he smashed his forehead against a pole, and we were back in the same ER getting 15 stitches.  The Lord was just pouring out His compassion on us over and over again as I cried out to Him.    \
	In the midst of all the craziness, the Lord brought a little baby boy into our lives.  He was within one mile of our house and had been through a lot of suffering.  We didn\'92t know what had happened to him or what was going to happen, but we knew that the compassion the Lord had been pouring out on us must now be poured out on this little boy.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	As you continue to go through the trials and sufferings of this life don\'92t forget that you must constantly go to the Lord for compassion, and His mercy and grace will overflow to help you in your time of need.  But don\'92t stop there.  Ask the Lord for opportunities to let that same compassion overflow out of you onto others.  May your compassion continue to be fueled by the compassion the Lord Jesus has shown to you. 
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Deuteronomy 24:17-22 contains instructions for God\'92s people to care for the most vulnerable, oppressed and helpless in society:  the sojourner, the fatherless and the widow.  Notice how the motivation to care for them springs from the fact that the Israelites themselves were once vulnerable, oppressed and helpless as slaves in Egypt. \'93You shall not pervert the justice due to the sojourner or to the fatherless, or take a widow's garment in pledge, but you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and the LORD your God redeemed you from there; therefore I command you to do this.  When you reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it.  It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.  When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over them again.  It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.  When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not strip it afterward.  It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.  You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this.\'94  God has intervened to show compassion and rescue the vulnerable Israelites.  Now
\f0 ,
\f1  they can show the same compassion and love to others.  To put it in Christian terms:  the Gospel motivates compassion.  Since you have been redeemed out of your spiritually vulnerable state of sin, you now move toward others who are afflicted in their helpless condition. \

\f0 	
\f1 When you think of the widow, the fatherless and the sojourner they tend to be people who are on posters, like a picture of a starving child at your grocery checkout with a little donation box.  You don\'92t know that child
\f0 ,
\f1  but if you feel pricked enough in your heart, you will drop some change and move on.  Let me make it a bit more personal.  Let\'92s say your mom is a widow in a nursing home.  After lying in her own waste for two hours
\f0 ,
\f1  she finally has someone to clean her up and take her to the bathroom.  Her caregiver is impatient with her slow movement and continues to knee her thighs over and over again
\f0 ,
\f1  creating bruises.  At night, she has visitors sneak into her room and steal her stuff.  What would you do for your mom?  Or, your child is living in an orphanage in some third world country, far away from you.  Their stomach kills because there is not much food.  Not a soul cares enough to read to them or rock them to sleep.  They have head lice and a rash that causes them to itch all over.  Their caretakers abuse them emotionally, physically and sometimes sexually.  What would you do for your child?  Or, you live in another country
\f0 ,
\f1  and you send your family to America.  You stay behind
\f0 ,
\f1  but they show up in Chicago with nothing.  They are easy prey for people to take advantage of them because they don\'92t speak the language, know the culture or have anything.  What would you do for your family?         \
	In all these situations you are emotionally connected.  That\'92s kind of what God is doing here in Deuteronomy.  He is saying that was your plight.  That was your condition as slaves in Egypt.  Remember the conditions
\f0 ,
\f1  and do not forget.  You were helpless, you were vulnerable and you were the oppressed.  But not anymore; now
\f0 ,
\f1  you are redeemed.  Since you have been an object of God\'92s compassion and love, let His love and compassion spill out of you onto others.  *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Over the years, I have preached on Acts 2:42-47 more than any other passage.  It\'92s a great description of what the church looks like in action.  Acts 2 portrays the day of Pentecost where Peter preached the Gospel of Jesus Christ to Jews from all around the world.  About 3,000 people repented of their sin and were baptized (Acts 2:41).  The book of Acts starts out mentioning 120 believers (Acts 1:15), but now, they have over 3,000.  Talk about massive church growth and revival!  There are enough new believers to make up a small town.  What happens next?  It\'92s laid out in Acts 2:42-47, \'93And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.\'94  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Even though this is a description of what happened in the early church, it is clear from the rest of the New Testament that when God changes lives
\f0 ,
\f1  it often looks like this.  The way they lived as the church was radical.  At least it is radical to many in the church today, but for them, it was just normal.  Some of their practices may seem a bit extreme, but for them, it was normal.  And I am hoping the \'91normal\'92 of the early church, which is often reserved for a few Radical Christians, would become the Normal Radical for all in the modern church.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 	
\f1  Do you want to live the Normal Radical Christian Life expressed in the early church?  Then it must be pursued with balance.  You must strive for the Balanced Normal Radical Christian Life.  Let me explain: in this passage a variety of activities are often emphasized to the exclusion of others based on one\'92s particular church tradition.  Churches that are really into teaching doctrine will emphasize the apostolic teaching portion of the passage.  Denominations that emphasize social justice will focus on the believers sharing their goods.  Charismatics hone in on the signs and wonders.  Christian groups that are more communal in nature may emphasize the intimate fellowship.  Movements that are more evangelistic and mission minded love to emphasize all those who are being saved.  \
	The late great Christian singer, Rich Mullins, said that as he traveled the world he noticed that believers in different parts of the world underlined different parts of their Bibles.  Mullins goes on to say that if we put all the Bibles together in the world then everything would be underlined.  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	It\'92s great if you come from a certain background based on the Bible.  The diversity of traditions is amazing.  But what would you and your church look like if you lived the Balanced Normal Radical Christian life?  Pray for yourself and your church to take all of these descriptions of the early church in Acts 2 and live them out for the glory of God.*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Let\'92s continue in Acts 2:42-47 and consider a couple elements of the Balanced Normal Radical Christian Life.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Apostolic Teaching \'96 The apostles taught these new believers in Biblical truth.  The Apostolic Teaching was centered on Christ, all that He taught and did along with the rest of the Bible that is fulfilled in Him.  The core of this teaching has been handed down to you in the Bible.  The Apostolic Teaching is the Word of God
\f0 ,
\f1  and those who faithfully teach the Bible pass it on from one generation to the next.  Traditionally, the Protestant Reformation has emphasized the importance of the Word of God for every believer.  Maybe you grew up in a church where the main emphasis was on preaching and teaching the Word of God.  That\'92s great!  But even if you didn\'92t, it\'92s crucial for you to be in a church full of people who are devoted to the Word of God centered on Christ.  \
	It is radical in our day and time to say you are devoted to God\'92s Word.  People may be fine if you are devoted to God
\f0 ,
\f1  but for them
\f0 ,
\f1  it\'92s taking it too far when you also are devoted to His Word.  Yet, God can\'92t be separated from His Word because in His Word
\f0 ,
\f1  He reveals who He is.  He calls for a response and obedience to who He is
\f0 ,
\f1  and in our culture
\f0 ,
\f1  that is considered radical.  Consider what God\'92s Word says by Jesus\'92 mouth in Luke 14:27
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.\'94  Jesus also says in Matthew 10:39, \'93Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.\'94  In God\'92s Word, you see Jesus calling you to abandon your life for His sake, even to the point of death.  This sacrificial obedience is to impact all areas of your life.  Many will say you are taking this religious stuff too far
\f0 ,
\f1  and even so called professing Christians will play down verses like this, possibly viewing you as an extremist.  However, when you pick and choose what you want and leave out others, you are playing God.  You must accept the Word as it is and live it out.  Others may view you as a radical
\f0 ,
\f1  but it\'92s simply the Radical Normal Christian Life.  \
	Prayer and Miracles \'96 The early church was a praying church.  They cried out to God with all types of thanksgiving and request.  They were asking God to move in mighty and powerful ways
\f0 ,
\f1  and He did.  All of these signs and wonders confirmed the Apostles\'92 teaching.  There may be times
\f0 ,
\f1  even today, where the miraculous occurs when the Gospel is preached.  The greatest power is seen in the conversion of sinners
\f0 ,
\f1  but at times
\f0 ,
\f1  the miraculous may be in healing or other powerful ways.  \
	In our day and time
\f0 ,
\f1  when I think about a group that emphasizes praying and the miraculous
\f0 ,
\f1  it tends to be Charismatics.  Maybe you come from a charismatic background where you consistently pray for God to move in powerful and mighty ways.  Wouldn\'92t it be great if all Christians started to be more prayerful and expectant?  Not expectant in the sense of an absolute guarantee
\f0 ,
\f1  but prayer with hopeful expectation.  The type of prayer where you are not only praying for your daily routines but also asking for God to move in powerful ways.  May the Lord stir you to be a part of a community that takes His Word seriously and prays expectantly, so that you are living out the Normal Radical Christian Life.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Let\'92s continue to stick with Acts 2:42-47 and consider a couple more elements of the Balanced Normal Radical Christian Life.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Fulfillment of Needs - Acts 2:44, \'93And all who believed were together and had all things in common.\'94  You can\'92t talk about how you are \'91all in\'92 with community as long as you leave your money out of the conversation.  The early church was together
\f0 ,
\f1  and in some sense, their money was together and available to those who had a need.  Acts 2:45
\f0 ,
\b \'a0
\f1\b0 \'93And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.\'94  This wasn\'92t mandatory but an overflow of love.  They saw people with a genuine need
\f0 ,
\f1  and they responded in love.  Later the passage says in verse 34, \'93There was not a needy person among them\'85\'94  Can you imagine a church functioning to the point where they say, \'93There will never be a needy person among us\'94?  
\f0 \

\f1 	In the past
\f0 ,
\f1  there were strong movements that combined Gospel preaching with care for the poor.  The Salvation Army used to have a strong history of giving out the Gospel and making provision for people physically.  Maybe you come from a tradition where it is all about caring for those in need inside and outside the church.  Maybe you make financial sacrifices so your brothers and sisters can be cared for.  In addition, you give your money away to those in need around the world.  If you don\'92t invest
\f0 ,
\f1  perhaps it\'92s not because you have a hard heart; you just don\'92t know where to start.  Let me encourage you to start by having a focus on personal investment.  Whether you give through a program or not, personally invest in people.  Invest in relationships and live a radical lifestyle of sacrificial giving.   \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Spread of the Gospel \'96 Acts 2:46-47, \'93And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, [47]\'a0praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.\'94  As the early church was meeting, worshipping, praying and caring for one another, people were getting saved.  The Gospel was being preached
\f0 ,
\f1  and God kept adding more and more people.  God desires to add to His community
\f0 ,
\f1  and He wants His people devoted to preaching the Gospel.  The church is filled with historical movements that spread the Gospel around the world.  Maybe you come from such a background.  But how are you doing now with sharing the Good News? Do you desire others to come to know Jesus and be reconciled to the Father?  I\'92m not content or satisfied at where I am.  I want this lack of Gospel sharing to disturb you as it disturbs me.  Out of love for God and a love for others
\f0 ,
\f1  let\'92s be aggressive in sharing our faith as individuals and together as church communities.*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	So far
\f0 ,
\f1  you have seen the radical nature of the early church in the way they got in the Word, prayed expectantly, shared their faith and cared for one another.  None of this would be possible unless they were actually around one another.  Notice what it says in Acts 2:42, \'93And they devoted themselves to\'85the fellowship\'85\'94  Fellowship is a Biblical word (
\i Koinonia
\i0 ) and it means, \'91participation.\'92 Participation in one another\'92s joys, sufferings and hardships.  Participation in doing the work of the Lord together and a general sense of doing life together.  Whether you come from a communal living fellowship or not, fellowship should still be radical.  Your fellowship and participation should go so far as even functioning as a family member.  The Body of Christ is your family.  As natural families participate in life together
\f0 ,
\f1  so is the case of your new spiritual family.  There are many people in the church who can enter your life and offer you wisdom, direction and love, maybe in a way you have never had in your own family.  My wife and I have experienced the fellowship of our local church
\f0 ,
\f1  as many people have loved us, built into us and lived life with us as we follow Jesus.  No church is perfect, as no family is perfect, but fellowship within a local church is the context for the Normal Radical Christian Life. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 	
\f1 This is why it is crucial you never stop meeting with a local body of believers.  Hebrews 10:24-25, \'93And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.\'94  Maybe some of the Hebrews were afraid of being associated with the church because of persecution coming their way.  They pulled away from fellowship in fear and a lack of faith.  Yet, they were to stay engaged in the fellowship, regardless of the circumstances, so they could be encouraged and encourage others as the church waited for Jesus to come back.  \
	If you are inconsistent in gathering with the church, what is your excuse?  Most of the reasons given are lame.  Why don\'92t you just say, \'93I was functioning in unbelief like the Hebrews and thought it would be better for me to miss church\'94?  Show me a Christian who is out of fellowship
\f0 ,
\f1  and I\'92ll show you a Christian who is struggling big time.  You need the assembly of believers.  You need the corporate worship and the preaching and teaching of God\'92s Word.  You need interpersonal interactions with others in small groups, Bible studies and accountability.  You need to be serving others with your gifts and your ministry.  You are to be an integral part of the Body of Christ.  You are to be in the mix of encouraging others until Jesus comes back.  \
	If you have been pulling away from the Body of Christ for a while now, take this time to repent
\f0 ,
\f1  and ask God to help you to believe His Word \'96 that you need the Body of Christ
\f0 ,
\f1  and they need you as well.  Let this passage sink into your heart once again, \'93And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.\'94*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	People just out of high school, college
\f0 ,
\f1  or graduate school are the ones who are often figuring out life and making future plans.  But it\'92s not like you are done planning when you knock out the big decisions of job, moving
\f0 ,
\f1  and mate.  It is amazing how you keep on planning for the future throughout all stages of your life.  Personal plans, work plans
\f0 ,
\f1  and spiritual plans are just part of living, no matter your age.  That\'92s why it is important to grasp a Biblical understanding of your future plans in light of God\'92s plans.  I want you to have a proper perspective of how your plans fit into God\'92s plans. 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	Planning for the future is good, but it must be done with the appropriate heart.  Proverbs 16:1
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the LORD.\'94  The Bible is all for making plans.  The first part of Proverbs 21:5a says, \'93The plans of the diligent surely lead to abundance\'85\'94  You have been created with a mind to work through different options.  Your thoughts and motives make up your heart, which seeks to plan for the future.  You have been given the ability to strategize and dream
\f0 ,
\f1  and that\'92s great.\
	\'93\'85but the answer of the tongue is from the Lord.\'94  However, God\'92s plan will be the ultimate outcome.  The answer the person gives with the \'91tongue\'92 is from the Lord.  The idea is that a person makes plans
\f0 ,
\f1  but the ultimate result is from the Lord.  So if you have been accepted to a school, your response will ultimately be what the Lord decrees in His sovereign will.  If someone asks for your hand in marriage or you get a job offer, your response will be what God has decided in His providence.  Your future plans are under the providence of God.  God\'92s sovereign will makes the ultimate decision.   
\f0 \

\f1 	Be careful here: I want to make a distinction between God\'92s moral will and His sovereign will.  Many scholars use different language
\f0 ,
\f1  but they come up with two distinctions concerning the will of God.  God\'92s moral will is His revealed will to us in the Word of God.  It is His will that we obey His Word.  But God\'92s sovereign will is not known and is only seen as events unfold in life.  The kind of planning I am talking about in this context has to do with your future planning in light of God\'92s Sovereign will, His controlling all outcomes and directing your life as He sees fit.  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	God has the final say about your future and your plans.  Proverbs 16:9 says,  \'93The heart of a man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps.\'94  You make plans
\f0 ,
\f1  but the Lord determines what happens.  No matter people\'92s plans
\f0 ,
\f1  they are not carried out unless they fit with God\'92s.  Proverbs 19:21
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand.\'94  There are a lot of plans in the world today
\f0 ,
\f1  and you even likely have all types of plans rattling around in your head, but only one plan will be carried out: God\'92s.  Every outcome is from the Lord.  Let God\'92s sovereign will give you peace that God is always going to be in control of your life.  You can plan all out, and at the same time, trust like crazy in God\'92s perfect Sovereign will.*\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	As you think through your future plans, you want to always be checking your heart motives.  Proverbs 16:2
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the spirit.\'94  Most people believe their plans come from good motives.  Maybe you assume you are like the one in this proverb whose plan is \'91pure in his own eyes,\'92 and there are times you can\'92t see how your plans have less than pure motives.  It\'92s like you can trick and deceive yourself.  Let\'92s say you want a bigger house
\f0 ,
\f1  and I ask you why.  You say you want to host a small group, put up missionaries overnight
\f0 ,
\f1  and have a big kitchen to feed all the homeless.  Really?  There are many plans that can seem \'91pure in our own eyes.\'92\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	\'91\'85but the Lord weighs the spirit.\'92  This emphasizes that the Lord knows your true motives.  I see it as a ripping out of your heart \'96 filled with your true motives and aspirations \'96 so everything is in the Lord\'92s sight.  This motive check by the Lord doesn\'92t have to be known to you at death
\f0 ,
\f1  but can be known to you now.  You can start to know your true motives in your plans.  There are three ways you can start to know your true motives: prayer, the Word
\f0 ,
\f1  and others.  
\f0 \

\f1 	1.  A good prayer is in Psalm 139:23-24
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts! [24]\'a0And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting!\'94  
\f0 \

\f1 	2.  The Word gets at our heart motives as well
\f0 .
\f1   As Hebrews 4:12-13 explains
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. [13]\'a0And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account.\'94  
\f0 \

\f1 	3.  Brothers and Sisters in the Lord are helpful for getting at your heart motives in your plans.  Proverbs 11:14
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93Where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in an abundance of counselors there is safety.\'94  You need counselors to protect you from yourself.\
	It\'92s like the Lord has these three safeguards to get at your heart, expose your motives
\f0 ,
\f1  and bring you in line with Him.  If you want to carry out your plans in a Biblical way by praying, searching the Scriptures
\f0 ,
\f1  and seeking the advice of others, there\'92s a pretty good chance you will proceed with wisdom and good motives.  I am a dreamer, always coming up with crazy ideas in which my motives are all over the place.  Sometimes I can pray about a situation and ask the Lord to search me
\f0 ,
\f1  but I am not as sensitive to the Holy Spirit\'92s conviction as I should be.  I can even read the Word and think the Scripture doesn\'92t really apply to me.  But it\'92s really hard to get past that last safeguard of other people who speak truth into my life.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		What\'92s going on in your heart motives today with regard to your future?  Ask the Lord to search your heart, diligently search the Scriptures and reach out to your brothers and sisters for guidance. *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Let\'92s say you have the right perspective on your future plans and even good motives.  Now it\'92s time for commitments.  Proverbs 16:3
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established.\'94  This is handing over it all to the Lord.  The word \'91commit\'92 literally means \'91to roll.\'92  I picture the rolling of a big rock: you have your big rock of plans
\f0 ,
\f1  full of details
\f0 ,
\f1  and your accompanying motives
\f0 ,
\f1  and you roll them into the presence of God.  You roll them in with a sense of humility and hopefulness
\f0 ,
\f1  and you are relaxed and at peace in God\'92s sovereign control.  You roll them in with prayer to check your motives, His Word to expose your heart
\f0 ,
\f1  and the counsel of others to protect you from yourself.  You roll all these plans before God and let Him decide what is to happen.  Or, as one of my professors has said, you take all your plans before God and leave them there. 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	\'93\'85and your plans will be established
\f0 ...
\f1 \'94  If God agrees with the plans in His sovereign decree, they will be established and come to fruition, but you have to leave the results to God.  Sometimes things don\'92t go as planned, even if you have good plans and good motives.  Sometimes God has an even greater plan than what you had in mind.  Your job is to plan, pray, seek counsel
\f0 ,
\f1  and roll it into God\'92s presence and trust Him for the outcome.\
	At times, you may be disappointed or confused that your future plans didn\'92t work out like you wanted, but God is still in control.  The prophet Jeremiah felt this as he said in Jeremiah 10:23, \'93I know, O LORD, that the way of man is not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.\'94  Proverbs 20:24
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93A man's steps are from the LORD; how then can man understand his way?\'94  You don\'92t know all the factors involved in your life or your future.  God is sovereign and He is in absolute control along every \'91step\'92 of the way.  You can\'92t figure it all out
\f0 ,
\f1  but you must trust the Lord who directs your journey through life.  You trust Him by obeying His revealed will and by planning
\f0 ,
\f1  while at the same time believing His sovereign plans are perfect.  Often, you can look back and say, \'93God
\f0 ,
\f1  you totally knew what you were doing.  I praise You for directing me all along.\'94  Now as you move forward
\f0 ,
\f1  you can trust in God and His ultimate plan for your life
\f0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	My favorite verse in the Bible comes from Ephesians 1:11 (NIV)
\f0 ,
\f1  \'93In Him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of Him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will.\'94  God\'92s plan was to save you in Christ.  His plan was to send Jesus as your Savior who died and rose again.  Now
\f0 ,
\f1  through repentance and faith, you can have eternal life.  What a great plan.  You rejoice in God\'92s Gospel plan!  But God also \'91works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will.\'92  The same God who planned your salvation also ordains all the details in your life.  He is working out His purposes in your life and plans.  As you plan for the future
\f0 ,
\f1  you plan as one who, in Christ, has been brought in to God\'92s plan.  So now
\f0 ,
\f1  in God\'92s great plan
\f0 ,
\f1  you can step into the future as one who is humble, hopeful
\f0 ,
\f1  and peaceful in Christ.*\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 As you think about your future, I want to give you two images I keep coming back to as I encourage others and myself.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	The first one has to do with planning in regard to your career or calling in life.  You plan what you major in, plan your job search, plan your career shifts, plan your future and plan a variety of other parts of life.  Part of planning is understanding yourself.  It\'92s very important to understand your ability, passions and gifts.  What do you do well? What do you enjoy?  What is in your gift zone?  It is very important to plan and live within your zone of gift-mix and ability.  Dave Kraft explains the concept of Comfort Zone vs. Gift Zone vs. Danger Zone.  You need to stretch yourself beyond your comfort zone and grow and take risks that stretch you.  But be careful, or you may fall out of your gift zone and enter the danger zone.  This is where you are driven and overreaching.  Perhaps you have a great job where you are around people all the time, and you are being challenged in your gift zone.  But there is another job you could get, which would put you by yourself most of the time.  You\'92d be crunching numbers, which isn\'92t your thing at all and would only wear you out.  The money is great and tempting, but you need to watch out for the danger zone.  As you plan in your heart, know yourself, your gifts and your passions.  Try to stay within who God created you to be as you make future plans.  \
	The second image has to do with your desire to predict how all the details of your future will turn out.  It\'92s like you want your future to be in HD.  You know how High Definition is so clear and beautiful?  You want to see your career transitions, your relationship shifts, your advancements and setbacks, and you want to see all the way into in retirement.  You want to see your transitions and future in HD. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Yet, that is not the way it works because God is God, and you are not.  Your future in the Lord is less like HD and more like a Polaroid picture.  This description of a Polaroid picture has been out there for a while.  I first learned it at a conference on Calling from Peter Richardson, and I have used it ever since.  Your future, rather than being as clear as HD, is more like the slow exposure of a Polaroid picture.  It\'92s not clear up front, and if you are waiting for absolute clarity before you do anything, you will be waiting a long time.  God\'92s calling for your life begins to become exposed slowly as you step out and live in full dependence on Him.  I believe God has set it up this way so that you would enjoy a relationship with Him, so that each day you would get up and seek the face of God for wisdom and direction. Each day you would ask God for wisdom in planning and working hard while trusting His Sovereign Control.  Each day you would ask God to search your heart.  Each day you would totally commit your life transitions to Him while leaving the results in His hands.  May you seek Him today and trust Him to expose His plan for your life until you see Him face to face.
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Romans 8:18, \'93For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.\'94  The Apostle Paul is so assured of the future glory that the present sufferings don\'92t even enter into the realm of comparison.  In light of eternal glory with God, suffering is a blip on the screen.  He says something similar in 2 Corinthians 4:17, \'93For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison.\'94  I once printed out this verse really big and went into a nursing home room of an elderly lady named Mrs. O\'92Neal.  She was a lady who suffered greatly in the body
\f0 ,
\f1  but she loved the Lord.  She was sleeping
\f0 ,
\f1  so I stuck it right on her so she would see it when she woke up.  It is encouraging that this temporary suffering is light and momentary while glory is weighty and eternal.  Paul is not diminishing suffering because sin has tainted everything in this world, even creation, yet even creation is looking forward to this liberation.      \

\f0 	
\f1 Romans 8:19-21, \'93For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God.\'94  The imagery here is of the creation longing for us to be free from the presence of sin and with the Lord forever in resurrected bodies.  This future hope for us is also a future hope for creation.  Due to Adam and Eve\'92s fall into sin, the creation became cursed by God (Gen 3:17-19).  Yet, the time will come when believers are glorified and the creation is transformed into a new heaven and a new earth (Rev 21:1-22:5). \
	While the creation waits for freedom, it groans in verse 22, \'93For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now.\'94  Not only is the creation groaning
\f0 ,
\f1  but believers do as well.  Verse 23, \'93And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies.\'94  Here
\f0 ,
\f1  you get a fuller picture of what is meant by glory.  Not only is it the new Heaven and the new Earth but also, \'91the redemption of our bodies.\'92  When believers die
\f0 ,
\f1  their souls go to be with the Lord
\f0 ,
\f1  but their bodies remain on this earth.  At the second coming of Christ
\f0 ,
\f1  their bodies are united with their souls
\f0 ,
\f1  and they are glorified with the Lord forever.  This, in a sense, is the completion of our \'91adoption as sons.\'92  Believers eagerly look forward to that time and know it will happen because they have the \'91firstfruits of the Spirit.\'92  Just as a farmer has the first batch of his crop with the promise of more to come
\f0 ,
\f1  so believers have the fullness of the Holy Spirit which is a pledge of what is to come in the redemption of their bodies in glory.  
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	For now, you do a double \'91groan.\'92  You groan in suffering and you groan with longing.  You suffer now with persecutions, physical pain (sickness, bareness, chronic pain), relational pain (conflicts, prodigal children, coworkers) and the struggle with sin (addictions).  While at the same time you groan with longing, you long to live in the fullness of your adoption with the Lord forever.  Keep pressing on in groaning, your longing will soon be fulfilled, as you will be with the Lord forever.*\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 Let me tell you an old wedding story.  Once upon a time, a man and a woman were to get married.  Now, the bride had 10 bridesmaids, and some were wise and some were a bit foolish.  Part of the tradition during this time was for the bridesmaids to leave the bride, go out and meet the groom along with his entourage of friends and family.  Then, they would accompany him in a huge processional to the wedding feast.  This was at night, so each bridesmaid had her own oil lamp, which was more like a torch.  Five of the 10 bridesmaids brought extra oil.  The wise ones wanted to be prepared in case of a delay, but the foolish ones didn\'92t really care. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Well, what do you know?  The bridegroom was delayed, and all 10 of these girls fell asleep out in the dark waiting for the wedding party.  All of a sudden, around midnight, they heard a cry, \'93Here is the bridegroom. Come out to meet him.\'94  They all woke up and tried to get their lamps going again.  But the foolish ones didn\'92t have any oil, so they asked the wise ones for oil.  The wise ones said that there was not enough for both of them, so they should go to the 24-hour oil supply dealership to buy their own.  So, they took off for the dealership to get more oil, but while they were gone, the bridegroom came.  The five ready bridesmaids went into the marriage feast with the bridegroom, and the door to the feast was shut.  Then, the five foolish ones who finally got oil in their lamps came back to the feast.  They noticed the door was shut, so they went up to the door and said, \'93Lord, lord, open to us.\'94  The reply came back, \'93Truly, I say to you, I do not know you.\'94 The End. \
	What kind of wedding story is that? This was a story told by Jesus to his disciples in Matthew 25:1-12.  The main point was that Jesus was coming back like the bridegroom.  He could return to earth at any time, and the disciples, like the wise bridesmaids, must be ready.  Right after he told the story, he said in Matthew 25:13, \'93Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.\'94 To \'91watch\'92 is to be constantly vigilant and ready for the return of Jesus Christ.  Are you prepared for Jesus\'92 return?  Are you ready to meet Jesus right now? \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	What does it mean to be ready?  Essentially, it means following Jesus and living a life of obedience while you long for His return.  For example, Titus 2:11-14 says, \'93For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, [12] training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, (Paul doesn\'92t stop there but speaks of a future grace to come) [13] waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, [14] who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.\'94 You are saved by grace through faith in Christ, which leads to holiness.  As you await the return of Christ, you want to live a holy life and be spiritually awake at His return, where you will get more grace and be free from the struggle forever.  Come Lord Jesus!
\f1 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	
\f0 The reality of Christ\'92s return should revitalize you spiritually.  The One you love and worship is coming back, which should impact the way you live right now. You must keep His return before your eyes and be impacted on a deep level.  He is coming to bring you out of this place of sin to a place of perfect righteousness, where you will live with Him forever in glory.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Consider the words in II Peter 3:10-13, \'93But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the Earth and the works done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn! But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.\'94  Peter says, \'93...what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness.\'94  His expression shows that it is a no-brainer conclusion.  If Jesus is coming back and the world is to be judged, you must live a holy life separate from the sin of this world.  The Apostle Paul gives us some good categories in Colossians 3 to think through, things you should both avoid and pursue.  You need to get rid of and put to death sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desire, covetousness, anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk.  The things you should pursue connected with your new home are: Compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, patience, bearing with one another, forgiving one another, and above all else, love.  So, you separate yourself from the world of sin and pursue a life connected with the world to come in Glory. \
	You are not just separating from your sin because of coming judgment, but also because of your future home.  II Peter 3:13, \'93But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.\'94  Believers are looking forward to the promise of a \'91new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.\'92  Righteousness dwells there because God is there.  And this place is only reserved for those impacted by the Gospel.  Those in this life who realize they are sinners saved by the grace of God through faith in Jesus will enter the new Heavens and the new Earth.  You are to wait and long for this future of righteousness where you will be delivered from your struggle with sin and come into an existence of perfect righteousness with God and with others.  You will actually live a holy life and treat one another perfectly all the time.  This vision of a promised future is to capture your heart now and spur you on to holiness.  Since you are waiting for this promise, you live a life of holiness and godliness now. \
	II Peter 3:14: \'93Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace.\'94  Since you are literally waiting for the coming of Christ, the judgment of God and the establishment of a new Heavens and a new Earth, you are not to be idle, but diligent.  You don\'92t wait passively, but actively.  You intentionally want to make sure you are in Christ, living a life of holiness without spot or blemish and at peace with God.  This is not about working for your salvation, but working out your salvation, which continues even today.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 *\
\
*
\f0 *
\f1 	Jude 24-25, \'93Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, 25\'a0to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.\'94  You may have heard this doxology at the end of church services before.  The original context is a church under attack from false teachers who are promoting false living.  In this perilous situation
\f0 ,
\f1  Jude encourages the church to contend for the faith.  They were to strive and fight against false teaching.  Not only are they to be on the alert against false teaching
\f0 ,
\f1  but also to keep themselves in God\'92s love by growing in Jesus, praying in the Spirit and waiting for his return.  Securely in Christ
\f0 ,
\f1  they were to have mercy on drifting peers by snatching them from the fire.  But through it all
\f0 ,
\f1  God was holding on to them and keeping them in His persevering love until the day of Christ Jesus.  The doxology that gives glory to God reminds them of God\'92s all-powerful
\f0 ,
\f1  preserving authority to keep them forever.  Jude ends his emphasis of contending for the faith on a note of rest.  This doxology is the believers\'92 rest as they place themselves in the all-powerful Sovereign God who will keep them forever.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 	
\f1 Verse 24a, \'93Now to Him who is able to keep you from stumbling\'85\'94  \'91Stumbling\'92 has the idea of falling and being lost forever in Hell.  Jude is giving glory to God in His persevering power
\f0 ,
\f1  but that blessing comes back down to believers who are reminded God will keep them from falling away.  Not that you won\'92t ever sin
\f0 ,
\f1  but you won\'92t stray so far as to love your sin enough to refuse repentance, deny the faith and be lost.  If you are a child of God and truly saved
\f0 ,
\f1  He will hold on to you and guard you from falling away.  God\'92s persevering love does not contradict the warnings throughout Jude, nor even the command to \'91keep yourselves in the love of God.\'92  Those commands are part of God\'92s means to persevere believers in His love.  You can rest in the One who keeps and guards you by His grace. \
  	Verse 24b, \'93\'85and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy.\'94  God will keep and guard you from stumbling and will one day present you \'91blameless\'94 in the presence of His glory with great joy.  Blameless has the idea of being without blemish.  In the Old Testament
\f0 ,
\f1  a sacrificial lamb was to be offered to God without blemish or defect as an atoning sacrifice for the people\'92s sins. It was an image that ultimately pointed to Jesus
\f0 ,
\f1  who was the Lamb of God without the blemish or defect of sin who died in the place of sinners.  Those who put their faith in Christ will one day be presented blameless before God, not because we are perfect
\f0 ,
\f1  but because of the righteousness of Christ.  You will be accepted in God\'92s presence because of the spotless one
\f0 ,
\f1  Jesus Christ
\f0 ,
\f1  through His life, death and resurrection.  You can rest in God\'92s finished work in Christ
\f0 ,
\f1  who will present us \'91blameless\'92 in the presence of His glory.\
	Verse 25, \'93to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.\'94  We find rest in the Everlasting Sovereign God, both now and forevermore.  Amen.  \
*\
\
\
\
\
\
}